Modify rule S6459: LaYC format (#2505)
SonarSource/rspec: rules/S6459/cfamily/rule.adoc

against the _lvalue reference_ (if the argument is an _lvalue_) or the plain type (if the argument is an _rvalue_):

[source,cpp]
----
template <SomeConcept T> void func(T&& x);
void f() {
  func(SomeType{});  // Argument is an rvalue -> T is deduced as 'SomeType'
  SomeType obj;
  func(obj);  //  Argument is lvalue -> T is deduced as 'SomeType&'
}
----

Even if it is possible to write `SomeConcept` in a way that works for both plain types and references, it is not straightforward and
requires a dedicated effort.

Many standard-provided constraints change their behavior when the type is a reference. For instance, a `std::copyable` constraint is never
satisfied for references, regardless of the referenced type, while a `std::copy_constructible` constraint always is. The following example
illustrates this:

[source,cpp]
----
template <std::copyable T> void func(T&& t);  // Overload #1.
template <typename T> void func(T&& t);  // Overload #2 (unconstrained).

void f() {
    // Call with an rvalue argument:
    func(std::string{""});  // Calls #1: T is 'std::string', which satisfies 'std::copyable'.
    // Call with an lvalue argument:
    std::string s{""};

>     func(s);  // Calls #2: T is a reference type ('std::string&') and therefore doesn't satisfy 'std::copyable'.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    func(s);  // Calls #2: T is a reference type ('std::string&') and therefore does not satisfy 'std::copyable'.
```

}
----

The rule raises an issue when a forwarding reference parameter is constrained by a standard-provided concept using _type-constraint_ syntax.

=== Exceptions

> The `std::ranges::range` concept and its refinements (like `std::ranges::forward_range`, `std::ranges::bidirectional_range`)
> are designed to handle forwarding reference parameters and will not raise issues for this rule.

Reviewer: We usually phrase it the following way:
```suggestion
The rule does not raise an issue for the `std::ranges::range` concept and its refinements (like `std::ranges::forward_range`, `std::ranges::bidirectional_range`) which are designed to handle forwarding reference parameters.
```
i.e.: 
the rule raises issues or not 
vs 
the behavior raises issues or not

But your sentence is correct, so I let you choose what you prefer :)

== How to fix it

To apply a constraint to a forwarding reference parameter, consider the following options:

* Either wrap the deduced type in `std::remove_cvref_t` and use the standard-provided constraint on the result in a `requires` clause.

* Or design a custom constraint that works for both reference and non-reference types, which is useful if you frequently encounter this
  issue with a specific constraint.

=== Code examples

==== Noncompliant code example

[source,cpp,diff-id=1,diff-type=noncompliant]
----

> auto func(std::copy_constructible auto&& arg)

Reviewer: I would add the "noncompliant" comment to highlight that the same block contains two different examples:
```suggestion
auto func(std::copy_constructible auto&& arg) // Noncompliant
```

{ /* … */ }

template<std::copyable T>

> auto func2(T&& arg)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
auto func2(T&& arg) //  Noncompliant
```

> _Type-constraints_ provide a terse way to express constraints on the type deduced for a given template parameter or auto placeholder.

Author: Agreed, changed in 54f20a8c259c1aca8fed58b1e56cbd7fcb243d3a.

In a situation when a type-constraint is applied to a forwarding reference parameter (`T&&`), the corresponding concept will be checked
against the _lvalue reference_ (if the argument is an _lvalue_) or the plain type (if the argument is an _rvalue_):

[source,cpp]
----
template <SomeConcept T> void func(T&& x);
void f() {
  func(SomeType{});  // Argument is an rvalue -> T is deduced as 'SomeType'
  SomeType obj;
  func(obj);  //  Argument is lvalue -> T is deduced as 'SomeType&'
}
----

> Even if it is possible to write `SomeConcept` in a way that works for both plain types and references, it requires a dedicated effort and a
> naive attempt may silently fail for one or the other.

Reviewer: I am not fond of the word "naive". What about:
```suggestion
Even if it is possible to write `SomeConcept` in a way that works for both plain types and references, it is not straightforward and requires a dedicated effort.
```

Many standard-provided constraints change their behavior when the type is a reference. For instance, a `std::copyable` constraint is never
satisfied for references, regardless of the referenced type, while a `std::copy_constructible` constraint always is. Consider the following
examples:

[source,cpp]
----
template <std::copyable T> void func(T&& t);  // Overload #1.
template <typename T> void func(T&& t);  // Overload #2 (unconstrained).

void f() {

>     // Call with an rvalue argument:
>     // Calls #1 (no surprise): T is 'std::string', which satisfies 'std::copyable'.
>     func(std::string{""});
>     // Call with an lvalue argument:
>     std::string s{""};
>     // Calls #2! T is 'std::string&' which doesn't satisfy 'std::copyable'.
>     func(s);

Reviewer: I would avoid writing "no surprise" as it may make the user feel stupid if it is not obvious.
```suggestion
    // Call with an rvalue argument:
    func(std::string{""}); // Calls #1: T is 'std::string', which satisfies 'std::copyable'.
    
    // Call with an lvalue argument:
    std::string s{""};
    func(s);  // Calls #2: T is a reference type ('std::string&') which never satisfies 'std::copyable'.
```

}
----

[source,cpp]
----

> template <std::copy_constructible T> void func(T&& t);  // Overload #1.

Reviewer: I like the idea of illustrating that standard-provided constraints do not work well with forwarding references. Still, I think one example is enough for the user to understand the point.

Author: You are right, I removed the second example in 7268c96e7f34b5aeecad638646b025ffbaba2bea.

    func(std::make_unique<int>(42));
    // Call with an lvalue argument:
    auto i = std::make_unique<int>(42);
    // Calls #1! T is 'std::unique_ptr<int>&', which satisfies 'std::copy_constructible'.
    func(i);
}
----

Most standard-provided constraints are sensitive to references in their type arguments. On the other hand, the reference in the deduced
type of a forwarding reference is meant to encode information about the value category of the argument in the caller. This rule detects
forwarding reference parameters that are constrained by the standard-provided concepts using _type-constraint_ syntax.

=== Exceptions

The `std::ranges::range` concept and its refinements (like `std::ranges::forward_range`, `std::ranges::bidirectional_range`)
are designed to handle forwarding references parameters, and will not raise issues for this rule.

== How to fix it

Either wrap the deduced type in `std::remove_cvref_t` and apply the standard-provided constraint on the result in a `requires` clause, or
design a custom constraint that works equally for reference and non-reference types (in case you have to deal with this problem often for

> a certain constraint).

Author: Good point, I slightly changed the suggested wording, and addressed that in 273878771dda02ba5bc937bf3dd56322315b4a06.

=== Code examples

==== Noncompliant code example

[source,cpp,diff-id=1,diff-type=noncompliant]
----
auto func(std::copy_constructible auto&& arg)
{ /* … */ }
----
[source,cpp,diff-id=2,diff-type=noncompliant]

> ----

Author: Looks much better. Fixed in 67dd3536861f6a0ddf1bcb2b31f4cb89f75665a6. :smile:

{ /* … */ }
----

== Resources

=== Documentation

>  * CPP reference - https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/reference#Forwarding_references[Forwarding references]

Reviewer: What about adding a link to the c++ constraints and concepts page?
```suggestion
 * CPP reference - https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/reference#Forwarding_references[Forwarding references]
 * CPP reference - https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/constraints[Constraints and concepts]
```

Author: Good point
